+++
title = "A Distributed Epigenetic Shape Formation and Regeneration Algorithm for a Swarm of Robots"
date = 2018-01-01
authors = ["Rahul Shivnarayan Mishra", "*Tushar Semwal*", "Shivashankar B Nair"]
publication_types = ["1"]
abstract = "Living cells exhibit both growth and regeneration of body tissues. Epigenetic Tracking (ET), models this growth and regenerative qualities of living cells and has been used to generate complex 2D and 3D shapes. In this paper, we present an ET based algorithm that aids a swarm of identically-programmed robots to form arbitrary shapes and regenerate them when cut. The algorithm works in a distributed manner using only local interactions and computations without any central control and aids the robots to form the shape in a triangular lattice structure. In case of damage or splitting of the shape, it helps each set of the remaining robots to regenerate and position themselves to build scaled down versions of the original shape. The paper presents the shapes formed and regenerated by the algorithm using the Kilombo simulator."
featured = true
publication = "*Proceedings of the Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference Companion* **[CORE Ranking A]**"
# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.11935"
#url_code = "#"
#url_dataset = "#"
#url_project = "#"
#url_slides = "#"
#url_video = "#"
#url_poster = "#"
#url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# links = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder. 
[image]
  # Caption (optional)
  # caption = "AgPi based LATS (Location-Aware and Tracking Services) application"

  # Focal point (optional)
  # Options: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight
  focal_point = "Smart"
+++

